http://www.functionalgeekery.com/episode-20-eric-b-merritt/

> I suspect, and this is just me guessing, that that comes really from this idea that we have in the programming community that statically typed systems are bad for exploration or for doing things where you don't really know the full extent of what it is you have to do. We draw a line a lot in our heads where we say dynamically typed systems (like Ruby and Python) are better for exploratory programming and Ocaml, SML, Haskell are better for well-known problems.

> I think that's probably this idea that dynamic typing is looser and looser means less coupling is where that comes from. My position is that's a load of crap, it's not true at all. It's an excuse for not using types. The same amount of work happens in both cases. If you're doing a good job, you're going to do just the same amount of work if you do it in Ruby or Python or in OCaml or Haskel. The difference is in the distrubution of that work.

> In Ruby/Python/whatever the work is at the end when you start running in production and it falls over all the place because you forgot that the type you expected is not the type that actually existed or you made a change somewhere and forgot to make it somewhere else. You have to work through all that at the end, but in the beginning it feels like you're programming a lot faster. Whereas languages with a type-inferred static type system, that work would be distributed throughout the time in which you're doing the programming. So it can feel like you're going slower because you're doing more work up front, but you're esentially going at the same speed.

> What does happen is that a lot of times in dynamic languages you won't catch all the edge cases. It means you won't have to do that work, but it's also a bomb in your code that's waiting to blow up. Static types force you to address all of these problems, before you can compile the code.
